color-mix() function: move demo and change values to parameters (#41123)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/color_value/color-mix/index.md

color-mix(in srgb, plum, #123456)
color-mix(in lab, plum 60%, #123456 50%)

/* With hue interpolation method */
color-mix(in lch increasing hue, hsl(200deg 50% 80%), coral)
color-mix(in lch longer hue, hsl(200deg 50% 80%) 44%, coral 16%)
```

### Parameters

The `color-mix( <color-interpolation-method>, <color> [<percentage>], <color> [<percentage>] )` accepts the following parameters:

- {{CSSXref("&lt;color-interpolation-method&gt;")}}
  - : Specifies what interpolation method should be used to mix the colors. It consists of the `in` keyword followed by a {{glossary("color space")}} (one of the color spaces listed in the [formal syntax](#formal_syntax)), and, optionally, a {{CSSXref("&lt;hue-interpolation-method&gt;")}}.

- {{CSSXref("&lt;color&gt;")}}
  - : A color to mix; can be any valid `<color>` value.

- {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} {{optional_inline}}
  - : A percentage value specifying the amount of the corresponding color to mix; can be any `<percentage>` value between `0%` and `100%`, inclusive.

### Return value

A `<color>`; the result of mixing the colors, in the given `<color-space>`, in the specified amounts and hue direction.

## Description

> The `color-mix()` function enables mixing two {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;")}} values of any type, in a specific ratio, in a given colorspace, using either a shorter or longer hue interpolation method. Browsers support a plethora of color spaces. The color-mix function enables producing unlimited colors without limiting ourselves to the neither linear-light nor perceptually uniform sRGB color space with it's dark and grayish color ranges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `color-mix()` function enables mixing two {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;")}} values of any type, in a specific ratio, in a given colorspace, using either a shorter or longer hue interpolation method. Browsers support a plethora of color spaces; the `color-mix()` function enables a wide range of colors to be mixed, not limited to the sRGB color space.
```

Reviewer: Last bit of the sentence seemed overcomplex; folks who already know a lot about color spaces will probably already know this stuff, but it won't help people that don't.

Reviewer: You also explain this stuff below, but it is better explained down there.

### Choosing a color space

Choosing the correct color space is important for producing desired results. Given the same colors to mix, different color spaces may be more appropriate depending on the interpolation use case.

- If the result of physically mixing two colored lights is desired, the CIE XYZ or srgb-linear color space is appropriate, because they are linear in light intensity.
- If colors need to be evenly spaced perceptually (such as in a gradient), the Oklab color space (and the older Lab) are appropriate, because they are designed to be perceptually uniform.
- If avoiding graying out in color mixing is desired, i.e., maximizing chroma throughout the transition, Oklch (and the older LCH) works well.
- Only use sRGB if you need to match the behavior of a specific device or software that uses sRGB. The sRGB color space is neither linear-light nor perceptually uniform, and produces poorer results such as overly dark or grayish mixes.

### Color interpolation method

> The {{CSSXref("&lt;color-interpolation-method&gt;")}} specifies what interpolation method should be used to mix the colors. It consists of the `in` keyword and the color space the colors should be mixed in. Depending on the color space used, you can optionally direct the hue to be mixed along a longer or shorter path.

Author: ```suggestion
The {{CSSXref("&lt;color-interpolation-method&gt;")}} specifies what interpolation method should be used to mix the colors. It consists of the `in` keyword and the color space the colors should be mixed in. 
The color space must be one of the available color spaces listed in the [formal syntax](#formal_syntax). Depending on the color space used, you can optionally direct the hue to be mixed along a longer or shorter path.
```

> The [`<rectangular-color-space>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color-interpolation-method#rectangular-color-space) includes [`srgb`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#srgb), [`srgb-linear`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#srgb-linear), [`display-p3`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#display-p3), [`a98-rgb`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#a98-rgb), [`prophoto-rgb`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#prophoto-rgb), [`rec2020`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#rec2020), [`lab`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#cielab_color_spaces), [`oklab`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#oklab), [`xyz`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#xyz_color_spaces), [`xyz-d50`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#xyz), and [`xyz-d65`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#xyz-d50).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`<rectangular-color-space>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color-interpolation-method#rectangular-color-space) category includes [`srgb`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#srgb), [`srgb-linear`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#srgb-linear), [`display-p3`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#display-p3), [`a98-rgb`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#a98-rgb), [`prophoto-rgb`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#prophoto-rgb), [`rec2020`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#rec2020), [`lab`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#cielab_color_spaces), [`oklab`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#oklab), [`xyz`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#xyz_color_spaces), [`xyz-d50`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#xyz), and [`xyz-d65`](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#xyz-d50).
```

Reviewer: Because it's a category, not a single color space?

> The`<polar-color-space>` includes [`hsl`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hsl), [`hwb`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hwb), [`lch`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lch), and [`oklch`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/oklch). With these you can optionally followed the color space name by a {{CSSXref("&lt;hue-interpolation-method&gt;")}}. This value defaults to `shorter hue`, but can also be set to `longer hue`, `increasing hue`, or `decreasing hue`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The`<polar-color-space>` category includes [`hsl`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hsl), [`hwb`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hwb), [`lch`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lch), and [`oklch`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/oklch). With these you can optionally follow the color space name with a {{CSSXref("&lt;hue-interpolation-method&gt;")}}. This value defaults to `shorter hue`, but can also be set to `longer hue`, `increasing hue`, or `decreasing hue`.
```

> The [CSS colors](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors) module defines a {{cssxref("@color-profile")}} [at-rule]() for creating custom color profiles and color spaces. This is not yet supported in any browser. If and when supported, the custom color space will be declared as `in` followed by the [`<dashed-ident>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/dashed-ident#using_with_color-profile) name of a valid custom color profile. Currently, the color space must be one of the available color spaces listed in the [formal syntax](#formal_syntax).

Author: ```suggestion
```

> The [CSS colors](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors) module defines a {{cssxref("@color-profile")}} [at-rule]() for creating custom color profiles and color spaces. This is not yet supported in any browser. If and when supported, the custom color space will be declared as `in` followed by the [`<dashed-ident>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/dashed-ident#using_with_color-profile) name of a valid custom color profile. Currently, the color space must be one of the available color spaces listed in the [formal syntax](#formal_syntax).

Reviewer: I thought we didn't usually detail things that aren't yet supported on reference pages, just on module pages? Feels like we should leave this out to me.

### Color percentages

Each of the two colors can be declared with a `<percentage>` value between `0%` and `100%`, which specifies the amount of the corresponding color to mix. The percentages are normalized if the total value of the declared percentages does not equal 100%.

The two color percentages (we'll refer to them as `p1` and `p2`) are normalized as follows:

- If both `p1` and `p2` are omitted, then `p1 = p2 = 50%`.
- If `p1` is omitted, then `p1 = 100% - p2`.
- If `p2` is omitted, then `p2 = 100% - p1`.
- If `p1 = p2 = 0%`, the function is invalid.
- If `p1 + p2 ≠ 100%`, then `p1' = p1 / (p1 + p2)` and `p2' = p2 / (p1 + p2)`, where `p1'` and `p2'` are the normalization results.
  - If `p1 + p2 < 100%`, then an alpha multiplier of `p1 + p2` is applied to the resulting color. This is similar to mixing in [`transparent`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/named-color#transparent), with percentage `pt = 100% - p1 - p2`.

> ### Color mixer

Reviewer: I feel like it would be better to include this live demo just below the first paragraph underneath the "Description" heading. After you've just descibed what it does, then you can immediately show what it does. 

Having it here with a separate heading still feels too much like an "Example" section.

- If avoiding graying out in color mixing is desired, i.e., maximizing chroma throughout the transition, Oklch (and the older LCH) work well.
- Only use sRGB if you need to match the behavior of a specific device or software that uses sRGB. The sRGB color space is neither linear-light nor perceptually uniform, and produces poorer results such as overly dark or grayish mixes.

> ### Color mixer

Reviewer 2: The page can't start with an H3, and H2 would make it not conform to our fixed H2 sequence. I personally think it makes perfect sense as an example, since it is... an example, just without the source code.
